# SJ Urban Impact
A generative-AI-powered application to boost civic engagement.

## Overview 
SJ Urban Impact is a web-based app that aims to assist citizens who may be frustrated with the current shape of their city, so they can actively participate in urban development planning in their community. 

## SJ Urban Impact: What is it? 
SJ Urban Impact is a web-based app hosted via Streamlit. Our app goes beyond increasing walkability to enhance civic engagement throughout San Jose. With our innovative tools, you can report city issues, visualize solutions through image generation, and stay updated with the latest news in the city. Explore San Jose's streets through your lens, contribute to shaping its future, and engage with your community more deeply. Your insights drive the transformation towards a more vibrant and inclusive urban environment.

## Why do we need SJ Urban Impact and who would use it? 
Let’s learn about a young professional who can benefit from using our app. Meet Aaron, a student located in San Jose. He is passionate about creating vibrant, accessible urban environments and uses his technological and design skills to promote initiatives in his community. Although he loves the city, he finds that many areas lack safe pedestrian paths and adequate public transportation, which makes it difficult to navigate the city without a car. This is why he actively participates in town hall meetings and leverages his social media accounts to advocate for better urban planning and community engagement. 

## How does SJ Urban Impact Work?
SJ Urban Impact leverages OpenAI's generative AI capabilities, Python libraries, and Streamlit to provide a web-based solution to address frustrations related to urban development. SJ Urban Impact offers 3 features on the app, all of which are tailored to meet the needs of motivated indifvisuals. 

## Feature 1: Analyze and Report Issues in Your City
SJ Urban Impact draws on the power of OpenAI's Vision capabilities to analyze user-uploaded images. For example, if Aaron, our user, uploads a picture of a pothole, SJ Urban Impact not only identifies that potholes are a hazard, but also recognizes their impact on the overall accessibility of a city. The app also offers suggestions on how to fix the pothole-related issue, such as enforcing regular street maintanence and designing better roadways. After analyzing the issue depicted in the image and providing solutions, SJ Urban Impact lets users report this issue to local authorities, should the issue be categorized as "severe" enough for reporting. With just one click of a button, users can file a report without having to fill out any paperwork. This feature is useful because it provides a simple, convenient way for citizens to connect with their local authorities and alert them of any concerns that affect their daily urban experience. 

## Feature 2: Envision Your Ideal City
Users can also use our app to picture their "perfect" city. For young adults like Aaron who want to voice their worries about various urban challenges in their city, this feature is perfect for visualizing urban improvements that they would like to see in their city. If they were to attend a townhall meeting and speak to authorities directly, it might be hard to articulate or paint a picture of what changes they would like to see in their community. However, SJ Urban Impact leverages DALL-E's image generation abilities to let users enter a text prompt of what they would like to see in their ideal city. This feature fosters community-driven city planning, giving users a way to create tangible solutions that they could potentially present to city officials. Additionally, for users who participate in town hall meetings like Aaron, they can use this feature to quickly and effortlessly visualize any ideas they have during meetings, as opposed to drawing their individual proposals by hand. 

## Feature 3: Stay Updated with the Latest News 
Young adults in San Jose are likely busy and are probably not able to dedicate the amount of time they want to staying updated with current events. SJ Urban Impact aims to provide easy-to-digest content for such individuals, as it relates to urban development initiatives and discussions in the community. As of now, SJ Urban Impact's scope is limited to downtown San Jose. SJ Urban Impact utilizes PyMuPDF and GPT-4-Turbo to analyze numerous pdf-formatted articles about urban-development-related issues in downtown San Jose. In the form of a drop-down menu, users can select the article they want to read up on, as well as whether they want to see a brief summary, a list of key points, or the full transcription of the article. Having these options gives users the flexibility to select how much information they would like to consume at a given time, making it easy for students to stay up-to-date with urban-development-related news without suffering from information overload. 
